Q1. What is the purpose of Python's OOP?

 The purpose of Python's OOP is to  create objects which contain both data (attributes) and behavior (methods) in a structured, organized manner.
 This allows for more efficient and modular code development.

Q2. Where does an inheritance search look for an attribute?
An inheritance search looks for an attribute in the following order: the instance, the class, and any superclasses.

Q3. How do you distinguish between a class object and an instance object?

 You can distinguish between a class object and an instance object by checking the type of the object.
 A class object will be of type "type" while an instance object will be of the type of the class instansiated.

Q4. What makes the first argument in a class’s method function special?

 The first argument in a class's method function, often called "self", is special because it is used to refer to the instance of the object
 on which the method is being called. This allows the method to access and modify the attributes of the object.

Q5. What is the purpose of the init method?
    The purpose of the init method is to initialize the attributes of an object when it is first created. 
It is called automatically when an object is created using the class's constructor.

Q6. What is the process for creating a class instance?

To create a class instance, you first need to define a class. Then you can use the class's constructor function usually called "init"
 to create a new instance of the class by calling the class name as if it were a function, passing in any necessary arguments.

Q7. What is the process for creating a class?

To create a class in Python, you use the "class" keyword, followed by the name of the class, and a colon.
 We then define the attributes and methods of the class in the indented block below the class definition.

Q8. How would you define the superclasses of a class?
You can define the superclasses of a class by including them in the parentheses following the class name when defining the class. For example: "class SubClass(SuperClass1, SuperClass2):"


Q9. What is the relationship between classes and modules?

A module is a collection of classes, functions, and other definitions that are used to organize code in a structured manner.
A class is a definition for an object, and can be contained within a module.

Q10. How do you make instances and classes?

We create instances of a class by calling the class name as if it were a function and passing in any necessary arguments.
 We create a class by using the "class" keyword, followed by the name of the class, and a colon.

Q11. Where and how should be class attributes created?
 Class attributes should be created at the class definition.
 They can be created by simply assigning a value to a variable name.

Q12. Where and how are instance attributes created?
  Instance attributes are created inside the init method (constructor) of the class.
 They are created by assigning values to self.attribute_name within the init method.

Q13. What does the term "self" in a Python class mean?
 The term "self" in a Python class refers to the instance of the object on which a method is being called.
 It is used to access and modify the attributes of the object.


Q14. How does a Python class handle operator overloading?
 Python classes can handle operator overloading by defining special methods for each operator that they want to support. 
For example, the "add" method is used to overload the "+" operator for addition.

Q15. When do you consider allowing operator overloading of your classes?
We should consider allowing operator overloading of classes if it makes sense for the class to support certain operations
 and if it will make the code more readable and intuitive for users of the class.

Q16. What is the most popular form of operator overloading?
 The most popular form of operator overloading is probably the use of special methods to overload arithmetic operators such as "+" and "-".

Q17. What are the two most important concepts to grasp in order to comprehend Python OOP code?
 The two most important concepts to grasp in order to comprehend Python OOP code are inheritance and polymorphism.
 Inheritance allows a class to inherit attributes and behavior from a parent class, 
while polymorphism allows a class to define methods with the same name as those in a parent class, but with different implementations.

Q18. Describe three applications for exception processing.
Handling errors that occur during the execution of a program, 
such as attempting to divide by zero or trying to access a list element that is out of bounds.
Validating user input to ensure it meets the requirements of the program.

Q19. What happens if you don't do something extra to treat an exception?
 If we don't do something extra to treat an exception, the program will terminate and an error message will be displayed.

Q20. What are your options for recovering from an exception in your script?

Handling the exception with a try-except block and providing a fallback action or default value in the except block.
Debugging the error to find the cause and fixing the issue.
Changing the program logic to avoid the error condition.

Q21. Describe two methods for triggering exceptions in your script.

Raising an exception using the "raise" keyword.
Performing an action that is not allowed, such as dividing by zero or trying to access an invalid index in a list.

Q22. Identify two methods for specifying actions to be executed at termination time, regardless of
whether or not an exception exists.

 Two methods for specifying actions to be executed at termination time, regardless of whether or not an exception exists, are:
Using the "finally" clause in a try-except-finally block.
Using a "with" statement in conjunction with the "as" clause and the "exit" method.

Q23. What is the purpose of the try statement?

The purpose of the try statement is to define a block of code that may throw an exception, 
and to specify exception handling code that will be executed in the event that an exception is raised.

Q24. What are the two most popular try statement variations?

try-except: This variation allows you to catch and handle specific exceptions that may occur in the try block.
try-except-else: This variation is the same as try-except, but also includes an "else" block that will be executed if no exceptions are raised in the try block.



Q25. What is the purpose of the raise statement?

 The purpose of the raise statement is to raise an exception. It is used to signal that an error or other exceptional condition has occurred in the program.

Q26. What does the assert statement do, and what other statement is it like?
 The assert statement is used to verify that a certain condition is true. If the condition is not true, the assert statement will raise an AssertionError exception.
 It is similar to the raise statement in that it is used to signal an exceptional condition.

Q27. What is the purpose of the with/as argument, and what other statement is it like?
 The purpose of the "with/as" argument is to create a context within which a block of code is executed. 
It is similar to the try-finally statement, in that it ensures that certain actions are always performed, regardless of whether or not an exception is raised.


Q28. What are *args, **kwargs?
 "*args" and "**kwargs" are special syntax in Python for creating functions that can accept a variable number of arguments. 
"*args" is used to pass a variable  of non-keyworded arguments to a function, and "**kwargs" is used to pass a variable  of keyworded arguments.
 
Q29. How can I pass optional or keyword parameters from one function to another?

 To pass optional or keyword parameters from one function to another, you can use default values in the function definition and 
call the function with the desired arguments. For example:

def func(arg1, arg2=None, *args, **kwargs):
    pass

func(1, 2, 3, 4, kwarg1=5, kwarg2=6)

Q30. What are Lambda Functions?

 Lambda functions are small anonymous functions that are defined using the "lambda" keyword. 
They are often used as inline functions or callback functions, and do not have a name or return statement. They are defined using the following syntax:
lambda arguments: expression

Q31. Explain Inheritance in Python with an example?

Inheritance is a way to create a new class that is a modified version of an existing class. The new class is called the subclass, and the existing class is the superclass
 The subclass inherits attributes and behavior from the superclass, and can also have additional attributes and behavior of its own. For example:

class Animal:
    def __init__(self, name, species):
        self.name = name
        self.species = species
    
    def make_sound(self):
        print("Some generic animal sound")

class Dog(Animal):
    def __init__(self, name, breed):
        super().__init__(name, species="Dog")
        self.breed = breed
    
    def make_sound(self):
        print("Bark!")

dog1 = Dog("Fido", "Labrador")
print(dog1.name)
print(dog1.species)
print(dog1.breed)
dog1.make_sound()

Q32. Suppose class C inherits from classes A and B as class C(A,B).Classes A and B both have their own versions of method func(). If we call func() from an object of class C, which version gets invoked?


Q33. Which methods/functions do we use to determine the type of instance and inheritance?
 To determine the type of an instance in Python, you can use the "type" function. To determine the inheritance of a class, you can use the "issubclass"

Q34.Explain the use of the 'nonlocal' keyword in Python.

The "nonlocal" keyword is used to indicate that a variable being assigned to is not a local variable,
 but rather a variable defined in an enclosing (but non-global) scope. It is used in conjunction with nested functions, where a nested function wants to modify a variable defined in a higher level enclosing function. For example:


def outer():
    x = 5
    def inner():
        nonlocal x
        x = 10
    inner()
    print(x)

outer()  # Output: 10


Q35. What is the global keyword?

The "global" keyword is used to indicate that a variable being assigned to is a global variable, 
rather than a local variable. It is used to modify global variables from within a function. For example:

x = 5

def modify_global():
    global x
    x = 10

modify_global()
print(x)  # Output: 10



